src/content/notes/hobbies/gaming.md, before:

---
name: Gaming
slug: gaming
tags:
  - hobby
growth: budding
---

# Gaming

Gaming has been a constant companion throughout my life. From early PC gaming to modern consoles, I've always enjoyed the interactive storytelling, problem-solving, and pure fun that games provide.

## My Gaming Setup

### [[gaming-pc|Gaming PC]]
My primary gaming platform - a custom-built PC that handles modern games and doubles as my development workstation.

### [[gaming-linux|Gaming on Linux]]
I primarily game on Linux, which has become surprisingly viable thanks to Proton and the Steam Deck driving improvements.

### Consoles
- Nintendo Switch - for Nintendo exclusives and portable gaming
- Older consoles in the collection

## [[game-collection|Game Collection]]

I maintain a collection of games across various platforms, with a focus on games I actually play rather than just collecting for collecting's sake.

## Favorite Genres

- **RPGs** - Love deep stories and character progression
- **Strategy** - Both real-time and turn-based
- **Metroidvanias** - Exploration and ability-gated progression
- **Roguelikes/lites** - High replayability
- **Racing/Driving** - Connects to my [[cars]] hobby

## Gaming Philosophy

I tend to prefer single-player experiences over multiplayer. I enjoy games that respect my time and offer meaningful progression. Quality over quantity - I'd rather finish fewer games than have a massive backlog of unfinished ones (though the backlog is real).

## Related

- [[hardware]] - Building and maintaining the gaming PC
- [[3d-printing]] - Controller mods and accessories
- [[electronics]] - Audio setup for gaming

Commit message:

feat: major garden expansion - learning folder, welding, terraria, and more
- Create learning/ folder for education notes (UNIFEI, UMD, welding, Frontend Masters)
- Add Calculus Redemption Arc with Professor Tião and flash drive culture story
- Expand welding note with SENAI classes (TIG, MIG/MAG, SMAW) and galvanic corrosion
- Add Terraria note (800+ hours, family gaming across 20-year age gap)
- Create meta notes: Notes to Expand, Ongoing Projects
- Add maker seedlings: Gridfinity, Underware, Bambu Lab A1
- Add fishkeeping hub and planted aquarium notes
- Expand all gigs/jobs notes to budding
- Update Building the Garden with Day 6 log
- Fix wikilink syntax across codebase (no more pipe syntax)

Stats: 119 notes (75 seedlings, 39 budding, 5 evergreen)

src/content/notes/hobbies/gaming.md, after:

---
name: Gaming
slug: gaming
tags:
  - hobby
growth: budding
---

# Gaming

Gaming has been a constant companion throughout my life. From early PC gaming to modern consoles, I've always enjoyed the interactive storytelling, problem-solving, and pure fun that games provide.

## My Gaming Setup

### [[Gaming PC]]
My primary gaming platform - a custom-built PC that handles modern games and doubles as my development workstation.

### [[Gaming on Linux]]
I primarily game on Linux, which has become surprisingly viable thanks to Proton and the Steam Deck driving improvements.

### Consoles
- Nintendo Switch - for Nintendo exclusives and portable gaming
- Older consoles in the collection

## [[Game Collection]]

I maintain a collection of games across various platforms, with a focus on games I actually play rather than just collecting for collecting's sake.

## Favorite Genres

- **RPGs** - Love deep stories and character progression
- **Strategy** - Both real-time and turn-based
- **Metroidvanias** - Exploration and ability-gated progression
- **Roguelikes/lites** - High replayability
- **Racing/Driving** - Connects to my [[cars]] hobby

## Gaming With Family

Gaming bridges age gaps. [[Terraria]] is the perfect example - 800+ hours across playthroughs with my brother (10 years younger) and now our little sister (20 years younger). Finding something a 33, 23, and 13 year old can all enjoy together isn't easy, but digging tunnels and fighting bosses works.

## Gaming Philosophy

I tend to prefer single-player experiences over multiplayer, with exceptions for co-op with family and close friends. I enjoy games that respect my time and offer meaningful progression. Quality over quantity - I'd rather finish fewer games than have a massive backlog of unfinished ones (though the backlog is real).

## Related

- [[hardware]] - Building and maintaining the gaming PC
- [[3d-printing]] - Controller mods and accessories
- [[electronics]] - Audio setup for gaming
