src/content/notes/hobbies/woodworking.md, before:

---
name: Woodworking
slug: woodworking
tags:
  - hobby
  - maker
growth: budding
---

# Woodworking

Started watching Steve Ramsey on YouTube thinking "I could build stuff." Then I found Paul Sellers, and suddenly I wanted to do it properly - hand tools, traditional joinery, the whole deal.

## The Journey

Steve Ramsey is great for getting started. He makes woodworking approachable and shows you that you don't need a warehouse full of tools to build things.

Paul Sellers is where it clicked for me. Watching him work with hand tools, explaining why traditional methods work, showing that a few well-maintained hand tools can do what a shop full of machines does - that's when I decided I actually wanted to do this myself, not just watch videos about it.

## My Tools

### Power Tools

Full DeWalt yellow collection, because brand consistency is a sickness I've embraced:
- Table saw
- Circular saw
- Jigsaw
- Drill

I use these when I'm building modern furniture or need to get things done efficiently. My office furniture, for example - power tools all the way.

### Hand Tools

This is where the soul is:
- **Japanese hand saws** - Pull saws that I love. Once you get used to the pull stroke, Western push saws feel barbaric
- **Vintage hand planes** - There's something right about using tools that have already proven they can last generations
- **Chisels** - The basics
- **Clamps** - Never enough

I prefer hand tools. Power tools are faster, but hand tools are more satisfying. There's a meditative quality to planing a board by hand that a thickness planer can't match.

## The Shop Situation

I work wherever. Driveway, garage, borrowed space.

There's a room behind the garage that I've been meaning to turn into a proper shop. It's on the list. Everything's on the list.

## The Eternal Workbench

The crown jewel of projects-that-aren't-done-yet: a traditional Roubo-style workbench.

### The Plan
- Split top with a loose board in between for clamping workpieces
- Drilled through for chisel storage
- Leg vise
- The kind of bench that outlives you

### Current Status
- **Tops**: Glued up ✓
- **Legs**: Glued up from vigas (12x5cm dimensional lumber) ✓
- **Joinery and assembly**: Needs 2-3 dedicated weekends

It's been "2-3 weekends away" for about three years now. In my defense: two house moves and having a kid will vaporize your hobby bandwidth.

## The Chicken and Egg Problem

My whole maker life is an eternal chicken and egg situation, but with multiple chickens and multiple eggs:

- Need the workbench to build things properly
- Need the shop set up to put the workbench
- Need time to set up the shop
- Time gets consumed by other projects
- Other projects would go faster with a workbench
- Need the workbench to...

You get it.

## What I've Actually Built

Despite the nomadic workshop situation:

- **Bass pedalboard** - Made from Tamarindo and Peroba (Brazilian hardwoods) with traditional joinery. See [[Bass]]
- **Living room furniture** - Power tool builds for function
- **Dining table for my grandma** - One of my favorite projects
- **Wedding decorations** - When you have skills, you get voluntold for things
- **Office furniture** - Where I work every day
- **Subwoofer enclosure** - Custom box for the [[GM Classic]] sound system

## Future Plans

### The Custom Bass
I want to build my own bass guitar from scratch. Design the body, select the wood, wind the pickups, everything. Lutherie is calling.

I've already rebuilt my dad's 12-string guitar almost from scratch - new frets, nut, bridge. Bringing instruments back to life is deeply satisfying. Building one from nothing is the next step.

But first: the workbench.

### Car Audio Enclosures
Speaker boxes for the [[Classic Sound System]] and [[Bandeirante Sound System]]. Woodworking meets [[Car Audio]].

### Bandeirante Truck Bed
Wood flooring for the [[Toyota Bandeirante]] bed. Part of the camping/overlanding setup - functional and looks way better than bare metal.

### The Shop
One day that room behind the garage will become what it's meant to be.

## Related

- [[Maker]] - The broader maker hobby
- [[3D Printing]] - Different fabrication, same mindset
- [[Bass]] - The pedalboard and future lutherie
- [[Electronics]] - Tools need enclosures
- [[Cars]] - Audio builds need woodworking

Commit message:

feat: add Roubo Workbench roadmap note
- Create detailed workbench project note with phase-by-phase checklist
- Link from woodworking and ongoing-projects notes
- Document open design decisions (top attachment method, knockdown joinery)

src/content/notes/hobbies/woodworking.md, after:

---
name: Woodworking
slug: woodworking
tags:
  - hobby
  - maker
growth: budding
---

# Woodworking

Started watching Steve Ramsey on YouTube thinking "I could build stuff." Then I found Paul Sellers, and suddenly I wanted to do it properly - hand tools, traditional joinery, the whole deal.

## The Journey

Steve Ramsey is great for getting started. He makes woodworking approachable and shows you that you don't need a warehouse full of tools to build things.

Paul Sellers is where it clicked for me. Watching him work with hand tools, explaining why traditional methods work, showing that a few well-maintained hand tools can do what a shop full of machines does - that's when I decided I actually wanted to do this myself, not just watch videos about it.

## My Tools

### Power Tools

Full DeWalt yellow collection, because brand consistency is a sickness I've embraced:
- Table saw
- Circular saw
- Jigsaw
- Drill

I use these when I'm building modern furniture or need to get things done efficiently. My office furniture, for example - power tools all the way.

### Hand Tools

This is where the soul is:
- **Japanese hand saws** - Pull saws that I love. Once you get used to the pull stroke, Western push saws feel barbaric
- **Vintage hand planes** - There's something right about using tools that have already proven they can last generations
- **Chisels** - The basics
- **Clamps** - Never enough

I prefer hand tools. Power tools are faster, but hand tools are more satisfying. There's a meditative quality to planing a board by hand that a thickness planer can't match.

## The Shop Situation

I work wherever. Driveway, garage, borrowed space.

There's a room behind the garage that I've been meaning to turn into a proper shop. It's on the list. Everything's on the list.

## The Eternal Workbench

The crown jewel of projects-that-aren't-done-yet: a traditional [[Roubo Workbench]].

It's been "2-3 weekends away" for about three years now. In my defense: two house moves and having a kid will vaporize your hobby bandwidth.

The full roadmap is now documented. Time to break the chicken-egg cycle.

## The Chicken and Egg Problem

My whole maker life is an eternal chicken and egg situation, but with multiple chickens and multiple eggs:

- Need the workbench to build things properly
- Need the shop set up to put the workbench
- Need time to set up the shop
- Time gets consumed by other projects
- Other projects would go faster with a workbench
- Need the workbench to...

You get it.

## What I've Actually Built

Despite the nomadic workshop situation:

- **Bass pedalboard** - Made from Tamarindo and Peroba (Brazilian hardwoods) with traditional joinery. See [[Bass]]
- **Living room furniture** - Power tool builds for function
- **Dining table for my grandma** - One of my favorite projects
- **Wedding decorations** - When you have skills, you get voluntold for things
- **Office furniture** - Where I work every day
- **Subwoofer enclosure** - Custom box for the [[GM Classic]] sound system

## Future Plans

### The Custom Bass
I want to build my own bass guitar from scratch. Design the body, select the wood, wind the pickups, everything. Lutherie is calling.

I've already rebuilt my dad's 12-string guitar almost from scratch - new frets, nut, bridge. Bringing instruments back to life is deeply satisfying. Building one from nothing is the next step.

But first: the workbench.

### Car Audio Enclosures
Speaker boxes for the [[Classic Sound System]] and [[Bandeirante Sound System]]. Woodworking meets [[Car Audio]].

### Bandeirante Truck Bed
Wood flooring for the [[Toyota Bandeirante]] bed. Part of the camping/overlanding setup - functional and looks way better than bare metal.

### The Shop
One day that room behind the garage will become what it's meant to be.

## Related

- [[Maker]] - The broader maker hobby
- [[3D Printing]] - Different fabrication, same mindset
- [[Bass]] - The pedalboard and future lutherie
- [[Electronics]] - Tools need enclosures
- [[Cars]] - Audio builds need woodworking
