src/routes/projects/details/giphy.com-login-and-signup/+page.md, before:

---
slug: 'giphy.com-login-and-signup'
name: 'Giphy.com Login And Signup'
order: 2
description: 'Login and signup pages for Giphy.com'
techSlugs: [
    "react",
    "typescript",
    "django",
    "python",
    "styled-components"
]
images: ['/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/1.png','/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/2.png','/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/4.png','/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/5.png']
---

# About the project

My time at Giphy was short lived, but I had the opportunity to work on some cool stuff. Other than back-stage stuff that I can't really show here, like work on their SDKs, I also worked on the login and sign up pages for the website.

The pages were built with React, Styled Components, and Typescript, and they were integrated with a Django backend.

I also developed a few email templates, which are used in the login, login recovery, sign up and code verification steps.

# Challenges

A big challenge was putting the house in order when it came to email templating. There were a lot of different templates, and they were all over the place. I had to create a new system for email templating, and also create a new set of templates that would be used in the new login and sign up flows. I organized all templates into reusable snippets, and created a new system for templating, which was based on a custom Django template tag.

On the front-end side of things, the code was actually pretty straight forward. The Giphy team was one of the strongest I've ever worked with, and things were very well organized. I just had to follow the design specs and integrate the pages with the backend.

The biggest challenge in the front-end was actually styling everything! As you can imagine, Giphy is has very rich branding, and it was a challenge to get everything to look right, not to mention the plethora of animations. All in all, it was probably the most fun I've had while coding professionally!

# Final Thoughts

I am very proud of the work I did at Giphy, and I am very grateful for the opportunity to work with such a talented team. I hope I can work with them again in the future!

Sadly my stay there was short lived, as I was invited to join the team at LogRock, which was a great opportunity to get back at working at an early stage startup and building something up form scratch. And also to work with few friends and former colleagues.

Commit message:

feat(blog): :sparkles: add more posts

src/routes/projects/details/giphy.com-login-and-signup/+page.md, after:

---
slug: 'giphy.com-login-and-signup'
name: 'Giphy.com Login And Signup'
order: 2
description: 'Login and signup pages for Giphy.com'
techSlugs: [
    "react",
    "typescript",
    "django",
    "python",
    "styled-components"
]
images: ['/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/1.png','/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/2.png','/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/4.png','/images/projects/giphy.com-login-and-signup/5.png']
---

# Tinkering with the GIF Magic: A Quirky Stint at Giphy.com's Login Flow Revamp

## Table of Contents

## Introduction

My brief yet bustling stint at Giphy was a whirlwind of innovation and GIF-fueled tech escapades. Amid the covert backstage maneuvers, from crafting enigmatic SDKs to conjuring tech magic, I had a gala time reimagining the front-facing login and sign-up pages for the website.

Sprinkled with a touch of React, Styled Components, and Typescript wizardry, these pages made a lively connection with a Django backend. But hold on, there's more - I also dabbled in crafting the elusive email templates, orchestrating a seamless dance across login, recovery, sign-up, and verification steps.

## Dancing with Challenges

Ever tried wrangling email templates sprawled all over like a chaotic GIF dance party? Yep, that was me, spinning the wild emails into an organized template extravaganza. I stitched together a whole new templating universe, cleverly creating reusable snippets and a spanking new templating system. This venture tapped into my ingenuity by marrying a custom Django template tag.

As for the frontend frolics, Giphy's super-squad made it a smooth ride. With design specs as my guiding light, I twined the frontend intricacies with the backend melodies, never missing a beat.

But hey, the styling shindig was where the GIF-y fun kicked in! Wrangling Giphy's vivid branding amidst a cascade of animations was akin to orchestrating a symphony of GIFs. Navigating this creative tapestry was an unparalleled joyride in my coding journey!

## An Animated Finale

Giphy, you've got to know - I wear my code with a touch of Giphy's GIF-ish flair. The time spent weaving this pixelated magic has left an indelible grin on my tech-savvy face. It's not just the code that was electric; the camaraderie with an exuberant team was equally magnetic. I'm like a GIF loop hoping to sync up with this incredible bunch again, crafting tech symphonies.

As the Giphy chapter came to a whirlwind close, I hopped onto another adventure. The call from LogRock enticed me to delve into startup dynamics, sculpting tech marvels from scratch. An opportunity to shape tomorrow with old friends and comrades - life indeed is a GIF, full of quirky frames and thrilling transitions!
